README.md, before:

# Task 5: Simple Application Deployment with Helm

### Introduction

All environment was set up in previous task.
Npm scripts have been created to automate environment management (`package.json`):

```
# Start environment
npm run start

# Start environment
npm run stop

# Environment status
npm run status
```

### Note for Windows PowerShell

Since Docker Desktop and Kubernetes require elevated privileges, the easiest option is to use PowerShell with administrator rights.

Setting permission for PowerShell to execute scripts:

```
# Allow script execution
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser

# Revoke permission (return to safe state)
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Restricted -Scope CurrentUser

# Check current policy
Get-ExecutionPolicy -List
```

## Deployment with Helm 

- Copied app from [flask_app](https://github.com/rolling-scopes-school/tasks/tree/master/devops/flask_app) to folder `app`
- Created `Dockerfile`
- Folder `helm/app` for Helm chart
- Created Helm chart:
```
helm create app
```

- Prepared values for Helm chart (`helm/app/values.yaml`)
- Created `build-and-deploy.ps1` to build and deploy app
- Added `deploy` script to `package.json` to execute `build-and-deploy.ps1`
- Execute
```
npm run deploy
```

### Deployment step-by-step

- Build the Docker image: `docker build -t flask-app:latest ./app`
- Load into Minikube: `minikube image load flask-app:latest`
- Deploy with Helm: `helm install app ./helm/app`
- Get the URL: `minikube service app --url`

Commit message:

Added OS environment information to README file

README.md, after:

# Task 5: Simple Application Deployment with Helm

### Introduction

All environment was set up in previous task.
 
The environment was set up in Windows OS using PowerShell to manage it.

Npm scripts have been created to automate environment management (`package.json`):

```
# Start environment
npm run start

# Start environment
npm run stop

# Environment status
npm run status
```

### Note for Windows PowerShell

Since Docker Desktop and Kubernetes require elevated privileges, the easiest option is to use PowerShell with administrator rights.

Setting permission for PowerShell to execute scripts:

```
# Allow script execution
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser

# Revoke permission (return to safe state)
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Restricted -Scope CurrentUser

# Check current policy
Get-ExecutionPolicy -List
```

## Deployment with Helm 

- Copied app from [flask_app](https://github.com/rolling-scopes-school/tasks/tree/master/devops/flask_app) to folder `app`
- Created `Dockerfile`
- Folder `helm/app` for Helm chart
- Created Helm chart:
```
helm create app
```

- Prepared values for Helm chart (`helm/app/values.yaml`)
- Created `build-and-deploy.ps1` to build and deploy app
- Added `deploy` script to `package.json` to execute `build-and-deploy.ps1`
- Execute
```
npm run deploy
```

### Deployment step-by-step

- Build the Docker image: `docker build -t flask-app:latest ./app`
- Load into Minikube: `minikube image load flask-app:latest`
- Deploy with Helm: `helm install app ./helm/app`
- Get the URL: `minikube service app --url`
